## Tuesday

#### Morning checkpoint!

Do not forget to remind your teacher about it :)

### Pair programming
<details>

<summary>
Explore
</summary>

https://habr.com/en/post/151563/  (rus)

**Instruction**.
1. Work in the same repository fork. The partner must be added to the collaborators of the repository.
2. You should change roles on a timer every 30 minutes
Use 1 computer and monitor (the second one should be switched off, otherwise you can distract yourself and start working solo).
3. Agree on lunch time. During this time you should not work alone, but wait for a partner.
4. Swap the Driver and Navigator roles.
5. *At the end of paired programming, give feedback on what is worth improving next time.*

**Benefits of pair programming:**
1. **Sharing the experience:** It often happens that, working in pair, you learn about a couple of new hotkeys or some interesting utilities to speed up your work. In any case, by observing how other students program, you are constantly learning yourself.
2. **Enlarging knowledge about the system:** Constant changing partners for pair programming entails enlarging the knowledge about different parts of the system within the team. This lets you understand how the system develops, improve its design, and helps not to duplicate logic.
3. **Collective ownership of the code:** When everyone participates in writing all parts of the system, there never can appear any case of personal ownership of a class or assembly.
4. **Mentoring:** We all have been beginners in programming. As practice has shown, the easiest infusion into a project comes from pair programming.
5. **More communication:** Communication within the team helps to build trust. Stand-ups and retrospectives can contribute some communication into our daily work, but it can't be compared with the prospects of pair programming.
6. **Coding standards:** Working in pairs, constantly passing the keyboard and swapping pairs, programmers spread the knowledge about the coding standards applied in the project. No longer you'll need to implement some automatic tools to check the code quality.
7. **Improving discipline:** Working in pairs, you tend to demonstrate your interest and skills to the partner. And in this case it's pretty hard to get destructed and switch to social media and funny pictures instead working.
8. **Flow Pairing:** One programmer may ask the other "What are we working on now?" and they both begin to immerse themselves in the task. This approach can lead to flow state pairing, which remarkably increases the productivity.
9. **Fewer interruptions:** As a pair, you have fewer interruptions from some outside factors, since two people's time is more valuable than one person's time, your work becomes twice as valuable.

**Anti-patterns in pair programming**.
1. **Watch the Master:** This happens when there is a developer in the pair who considers (or even is) a guru in his or her field. The less experienced developer's questions about the code generated by Master go unanswered. Master may constantly send his partner to Google to read. The Master doesn't hurry to give the keyboard to his partner, and when the latter gets his hands on it, the Master loses all interest in the process.
2. **Dictator:** One of the developers in the pair always takes a tough ultimatum position on all decisions that relate to current tasks. In such a situation, there can be no question of mutual assistance or learning in pairs.
3. **Go get coffee:** The pair is working at the computer. One of the developers picks up a keyboard and starts writing code. He says to his partner, "While I'm doing this, please, go and get us some coffee." This violates the basic idea of mutual involvement of the both developers into the process.
4. **Silent partners:** Partners don't communicate with each other and don't comment on their actions and decisions as they go along. With no feedback the meaning of the pairing is lost.
5. **Separating tasks at the same table:** Developers stay in pairs, take two computers at the same table (desktop and laptop), and start working in parallel.
6. **Uncomfortable sitting:** The most common cause of fatigue during working in pairs is an uncomfortable position of the keyboard and monitor for whoever is now the "Driver". When the keyboard is passed from one developer to the other, the new Driver does not move to the center of the desk, but bends over to the keyboard, thus making it difficult for him or her to work.
7. **Partner is busy minding his own business:** One partner is moving away from his place of work, checking his email e.t.c. while working in pairs.
8. **Own environment settings:** Every time the control is directed from one partner to the other, the environment is reconfigured: bookmarks, font, etc.
9. **Different style:** Each partner adheres to its own coding standards, which causes heated discussions and terribly formatted code.

</details>.


### Testing (Jest).

* [Play around with Jest playground](https://replit.com/@jest/jest-playground)
* [How to write great unit tests](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/3258733/new-to-unit-testing-how-to-write-great-tests)
* [Elbrus docs](https://github.com/Elbrus-Bootcamp/manuals/blob/master/jasmine.md) (RUS)

### Nested arrays, enumerating methods
### Main section

**Assessments**
- [Enumerable methods](https://github.com/Elbrus-Bootcamp/core-js-enumerable-methods/tree/master-eng)
- [Nested Arrays: Chess and Table](https://github.com/Elbrus-Bootcamp/core-js-nested-arrays-chess/tree/master-eng)
- [Nested Arrays: Tic-tac-toe and Table again](https://github.com/Elbrus-Bootcamp/core-js-nested-arrays-tic-tac-toe/tree/master-eng)
- [Array Shuffle](https://github.com/Elbrus-Bootcamp/shuffle-challenge/tree/master-eng)


**Additional Assessments**.
- [Boggle Generation Game](https://github.com/Elbrus-Bootcamp/extra-nested-arrays-boggle-1-board-generation/tree/master-eng)
- [Boggle Game Checker](https://github.com/Elbrus-Bootcamp/extra-nested-arrays-boggle-2-word-checker/tree/master-eng)

### Additional materials

- [Mozilla documentation](https://developer.mozilla.org/en/docs/Web/JavaScript)
- [Interactive JS cheat sheet](https://htmlcheatsheet.com/js)
- Tomorrow's lecture: [Zhenya (2020-03)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CuZTWdUnwMw&list=PL8NGcSL3ZP--IPOAADXlCXObb3cbrYioH&index=2) (rus)
